---
layout: post
title: EZPZ Tooltip Demo
scripts: |
  <script src="http://s3.amazonaws.com/theezpzway/attachments/5/original.js" type="text/javascript" charset="utf-8"></script>
  <script type="text/javascript" charset="utf-8">
  $(document).ready(function(){ $('#simple-target-1').ezpz_tooltip(); $("#effects").ezpz_tooltip({ contentId: 'simple-content-1', showContent: function(content) { content.fadeIn('slow'); }, hideContent: function(content) { content.stop(true, true).fadeOut('slow'); } }); $("#static-target-1").ezpz_tooltip({ contentPosition: 'rightStatic' }); $("#stay-target-1").ezpz_tooltip({ contentPosition: 'belowStatic', stayOnContent: true, offset: 0 }); $("#ajax-target-1").ezpz_tooltip({ beforeShow: function(content){ if (content.html() == "") { $.get("/ajax.txt", function(html){ content.html(html); }); } } }); $("#fancy-target-1").ezpz_tooltip(); });
  </script>
  <style type="text/css" media="screen"> h3 { margin-top: 20px; } .tooltip-target { display: block; padding: 10px; background-color: #EEE; text-align: center; } .tooltip-content { display: none; /* required */ position: absolute; /* required */ width: 250px; padding: 10px; border: 3px solid #AF8A31; background-color: #FFC848; text-align: center; color: black; } .tooltip-content p { margin: 0; } #fancy-content-1 { border: none; background: url('http://s3.amazonaws.com/theezpzway/files/1/original.png'); width: 277px; height: 96px; } </style>
---

The following are some examples of how the EZPZ Tooltip can be used.


"Click here to visit the documentation":/2009/3/17/jquery-plugin-ezpz-tooltip

h3. Default, no options

The tooltip appears as you hover over the target, and follows the mouse cursor until it leaves the target.

<div class="simple-tooltip-target tooltip-target" id="simple-target-1">Simple ToolTip</div>
<div class="simple-tooltip-content tooltip-content" id="simple-content-1">
  <p> Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Maecenas sit amet enim... </p>
</div>

{% highlight javascript %}
$("#simple-target-1").ezpz_tooltip();
{% endhighlight %}

h3. Effects

The options @showContent(content){}@ and @hideContent(content){}@ allow you to customize how the content element is shown and hidden. Given a reference to the content element, you can call an effect on it.

<div class="effects-tooltip-target tooltip-target" id="effects">Effects ToolTip</div>

{% highlight javascript %}
$("#effects").ezpz_tooltip({
  contentId: 'simple-content-1',
  showContent: function(content) {
    content.fadeIn('slow');
  },
  hideContent: function(content) {
    // if the showing animation is still running, be sure to stop it
    // and clear the animation queue. otherwise, repeatedly hovering will
    // cause the content to blink.
    content.stop(true, true).fadeOut('slow');
  }
});
{% endhighlight %}

h3. Static Position

The tooltip appears in a static position relative to the target.

<div class="static-tooltip-content tooltip-content" id="static-content-1">
  <p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Maecenas sit amet enim...</p>
</div>
<div class="static-tooltip-target tooltip-target" id="static-target-1">Static Position ToolTip</div>

{% highlight javascript %}
$("#static-target-1").ezpz_tooltip({ contentPosition: 'rightStatic' });
{% endhighlight %}

h3. Stay on Content

A static tooltip that stays visible when mouse is over the target and the content.

<div class="stay-tooltip-content tooltip-content" id="stay-content-1">
  <p>
    Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Maecenas sit amet enim...<br />
    <a href="javascript:">You can reach down and click this</a>
  </p>
</div>
<div class="stay-tooltip-target tooltip-target" id="stay-target-1">Stay on Content ToolTip</div>

{% highlight javascript %}
$("#stay-target-1").ezpz_tooltip({
  contentPosition: 'belowStatic',
  stayOnContent: true,
  offset: 0
});
{% endhighlight %}

h3. AJAX

A tooltip with the content loaded with AJAX

<div class="ajax-tooltip-target tooltip-target" id="ajax-target-1">AJAX ToolTip</div>
<div class="ajax-tooltip-content tooltip-content" id="ajax-content-1"></div>

{% highlight javascript %}
$("#ajax-target-1").ezpz_tooltip({
  beforeShow: function(content){
    if (content.html() == "") {
      $.get("/ajax.html", function(html){
        content.html(html);
      });
    }
  }
});
{% endhighlight %}

h3. Getting Fancy with it

Using CSS, the content element can be styled with a background image that uses transparencies.
<div class="fancy-tooltip-target tooltip-target" id="fancy-target-1">Fancy ToolTip</div>
<div class="fancy-tooltip-content tooltip-content" id="fancy-content-1">Wow! That's EZPZ!</div>
